README.md, before:

# Lido-Oracle

Pythonic oracle daemon for Lido decentralized staking service. Periodically reports Ethereum 2.0 beacon chain states (validators' balances and statuses) to the Lido dApp contract running on Ethereum 1.0 ledger.

## How it works

* After the start Oracle connects to both nodes: Ethereum 1.0 and Ethereum 2.0 beaconchain.

* Upon the start and then periodically Oracle polls Lido contract, gets the last known epoch and validators to watch for.

* Oracle periodically scans Beacon node 2.0 for epoch number. Every 7200th slot it reports the stats for each known validator to the Lido contract.

## Run

define the environment variables

```sh
export ETH1_NODE="http://localhost:8545"
export ETH2_NODE="http://localhost:5052"
export ORACLE_CONTRACT="0x12aa6ec7d603dc79eD663792E40a520B54A7ae6A"
export REGISTRY_CONTRACT="0x5ec5DDf7A0cdD3235AD1bCC0ad04F059507EC5a3"
export MANAGER_PRIV_KEY="0xa8a54b2d8197bc0b19bb8a084031be71835580a01e70a45a13babd16c9bc1563"
export REGISTRY_ABI_FILE='./assets/NodeOperatorsRegistry.json'
export ORACLE_ABI_FILE='./assets/LidoOracle.json'
python3 oracle.py
```

## Test

To run tests you need all test dependencies installed

```
pip install -U -r requirements-test.txt
```
To run tests just type
```
pytest
``` 

## Helpers

### Referral counter

Parses submission events on PoW side and counts referral statistics

```sh
export ETH1_NODE='http://127.0.0.1:8545'
export LIDO_ABI='Lido.abi'
export LIDO_ADDR='0xfe18BCBeDD6f46e0DfbB3Aea02090F23ED1c4a28'
python3 count_referrals.py <start block> <end block>
```

## Work with e2e environment

1. run e2e enviroment lido-dao project(https://github.com/lidofinance/lido-dao). Testing on commit c63a05fa6bfa8cdf0360c2741c37a780eee0b093 

2. Define the environment variables. 

    Contract addresses may not match. The current addresses will be available in the Aragon web interface(http://localhost:3000/#/lido-dao/)
    ```bash
    export ETH1_NODE="http://localhost:8545"
    export ETH2_NODE="http://localhost:5052"
    export ORACLE_CONTRACT="0x12aa6ec7d603dc79eD663792E40a520B54A7ae6A"
    export REGISTRY_CONTRACT="0x5ec5DDf7A0cdD3235AD1bCC0ad04F059507EC5a3"
    export MANAGER_PRIV_KEY="0xa8a54b2d8197bc0b19bb8a084031be71835580a01e70a45a13babd16c9bc1563"
    export REGISTRY_ABI_FILE='./assets/NodeOperatorsRegistry.json'
    export ORACLE_ABI_FILE=LidoOracle.json
    export SECONDS_PER_SLOT=1
    export SLOTS_PER_EPOCH=8
    python3 oracle.py
    ```

3. Add permissions to the manager account:
    * SP Registry: Manage signing keys
    * Oracle: Add or remove oracle committee members

4. Make a manager oracle member (Oracle contract function addOracleMember(manager_address))
5. Add validators keys to SP Registry contract (SP Registry contract function addSigningKeys(quantity, pubkeys, signatures)).
    validators pubkeys are available on lido-dao project folder on path  /lido-dao/data/validators
    
    Keys must be converted. Python example:
    ```python
    import binascii
 
    pubkey = '810ad9abfc1b1b18e44e52d0dc862d8028c664cbdcadfe301698411386b77b2b1d120c45f688f0d67703286d9dd92910'
    binascii.unhexlify(pubkey) 
    ```
6. ``` python3 oracle.py```

Commit message:

Add GPL 3.0 License
Related: [lido-dao#121](https://github.com/lidofinance/lido-dao/issues/121)

README.md, after:

# Lido-Oracle

[![Tests](https://github.com/lidofinance/lido-oracle/workflows/Tests/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lidofinance/lido-oracle/actions)
[![License: GPL v3](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-GPLv3-blue.svg)](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0)

Pythonic oracle daemon for DePool decentralized staking service. Periodically reports Ethereum 2.0 beacon chain states (validators' balances and statuses) to the DePool dApp contract running on Ethereum 1.0 ledger.

## How it works

* After the start Oracle connects to both nodes: Ethereum 1.0 and Ethereum 2.0 beaconchain.

* Upon the start and then periodically Oracle polls Lido contract, gets the last known epoch and validators to watch for.

* Oracle periodically scans Beacon node 2.0 for epoch number. Every 7200th slot it reports the stats for each known validator to the Lido contract.

## Run

define the environment variables

```sh
export ETH1_NODE="http://localhost:8545"
export ETH2_NODE="http://localhost:5052"
export ORACLE_CONTRACT="0x12aa6ec7d603dc79eD663792E40a520B54A7ae6A"
export REGISTRY_CONTRACT="0x5ec5DDf7A0cdD3235AD1bCC0ad04F059507EC5a3"
export MANAGER_PRIV_KEY="0xa8a54b2d8197bc0b19bb8a084031be71835580a01e70a45a13babd16c9bc1563"
export REGISTRY_ABI_FILE='./assets/NodeOperatorsRegistry.json'
export ORACLE_ABI_FILE='./assets/LidoOracle.json'
python3 oracle.py
```

## Test

To run tests you need all test dependencies installed

```
pip install -U -r requirements-test.txt
```
To run tests just type
```
pytest
``` 

## Helpers

### Referral counter

Parses submission events on PoW side and counts referral statistics

```sh
export ETH1_NODE='http://127.0.0.1:8545'
export LIDO_ABI='Lido.abi'
export LIDO_ADDR='0xfe18BCBeDD6f46e0DfbB3Aea02090F23ED1c4a28'
python3 count_referrals.py <start block> <end block>
```

## Work with e2e environment

1. run e2e enviroment lido-dao project(https://github.com/lidofinance/lido-dao). Testing on commit c63a05fa6bfa8cdf0360c2741c37a780eee0b093 

2. Define the environment variables. 

    Contract addresses may not match. The current addresses will be available in the Aragon web interface(http://localhost:3000/#/lido-dao/)
    ```bash
    export ETH1_NODE="http://localhost:8545"
    export ETH2_NODE="http://localhost:5052"
    export ORACLE_CONTRACT="0x12aa6ec7d603dc79eD663792E40a520B54A7ae6A"
    export REGISTRY_CONTRACT="0x5ec5DDf7A0cdD3235AD1bCC0ad04F059507EC5a3"
    export MANAGER_PRIV_KEY="0xa8a54b2d8197bc0b19bb8a084031be71835580a01e70a45a13babd16c9bc1563"
    export REGISTRY_ABI_FILE='./assets/NodeOperatorsRegistry.json'
    export ORACLE_ABI_FILE=LidoOracle.json
    export SECONDS_PER_SLOT=1
    export SLOTS_PER_EPOCH=8
    python3 oracle.py
    ```

3. Add permissions to the manager account:
    * SP Registry: Manage signing keys
    * Oracle: Add or remove oracle committee members

4. Make a manager oracle member (Oracle contract function addOracleMember(manager_address))
5. Add validators keys to SP Registry contract (SP Registry contract function addSigningKeys(quantity, pubkeys, signatures)).
    validators pubkeys are available on lido-dao project folder on path  /lido-dao/data/validators
    
    Keys must be converted. Python example:
    ```python
    import binascii
 
    pubkey = '810ad9abfc1b1b18e44e52d0dc862d8028c664cbdcadfe301698411386b77b2b1d120c45f688f0d67703286d9dd92910'
    binascii.unhexlify(pubkey) 
    ```

6. ```python3 oracle.py```

# License

2020 Lido <info@lido.fi>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, version 3 of the License, or any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the [GNU General Public License](LICENSE)
along with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
